README.md, before:

# Bitwarden on Google Cloud Docker Image - Countryblock

Docker container that blocks IPs from specified countries from accessing the host, by using `iptables`. Used in the [Bitwarden self-hosted on Google Cloud for Free](https://github.com/dadatuputi/bitwarden_gcloud) project, however this image may be used stand-alone.

# Container Requirements

* Capabilities (`cap_add`):
  * `NET_ADMIN`
  * `NET_RAW`
* `privileged: true`
* `network_mode: "host"`


# Environmental Variables

| Environmental Variable | Description                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| COUNTRIES              | Space separated list of countries' ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code (e.g., CN HK AU) |
| COUNTRYBLOCK_SCHEDULE  | Cron expression for when to update the IP block list (e.g., 0 0 \* \* \*)   |
| IPTABLES               | Command to use for iptables (e.g. `iptables`, `iptables-legacy`). Defaults to `iptables`. |
| TZ                     | Timezone, optional                                                          |

# Migration from iptables-legacy

If you previously used this container with `iptables-legacy` (or if your host system had rules created by `iptables-legacy`), and you are switching to `iptables` (nf_tables), you must clean up the old rules on your host to avoid conflicts.

Run the following commands on your host machine:

\`\`\`bash
# Remove all references to countryblock in INPUT chain
while sudo iptables-legacy -D INPUT -j countryblock 2>/dev/null; do :; done

# Flush and delete the countryblock chain
sudo iptables-legacy -F countryblock 2>/dev/null
sudo iptables-legacy -X countryblock 2>/dev/null
\`\`\`

Commit message:

:sparkles: Automate iptables migration cleanup
Eliminates the need for manual intervention when migrating between iptables and iptables-legacy. Previously, users had to manually run cleanup commands on their host system to remove conflicting rules, which was error-prone and could lead to firewall conflicts if forgotten or executed incorrectly. The container now handles this automatically at startup, detecting and removing any conflicting rules from the alternate iptables implementation.

README.md, after:

# Bitwarden on Google Cloud Docker Image - Countryblock

Docker container that blocks IPs from specified countries from accessing the host, by using `iptables`. Used in the [Bitwarden self-hosted on Google Cloud for Free](https://github.com/dadatuputi/bitwarden_gcloud) project, however this image may be used stand-alone.

# Container Requirements

- Capabilities (`cap_add`):
  - `NET_ADMIN`
  - `NET_RAW`
- `privileged: true`
- `network_mode: "host"`

# Environmental Variables

| Environmental Variable | Description                                                                               |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| COUNTRIES              | Space separated list of countries' ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code (e.g., CN HK AU)               |
| COUNTRYBLOCK_SCHEDULE  | Cron expression for when to update the IP block list (e.g., 0 0 \* \* \*)                 |
| IPTABLES               | Command to use for iptables (e.g. `iptables`, `iptables-legacy`). Defaults to `iptables`. |
| TZ                     | Timezone, optional                                                                        |

# Migration from iptables-legacy

The container automatically handles migration between `iptables-legacy` and `iptables` (nf_tables). When the container starts:

- If no `IPTABLES` environment variable is set, it auto-detects which implementation is in use on your host
- It automatically cleans up any conflicting rules from the other implementation
- This ensures seamless migration without manual intervention

If you prefer to explicitly set which implementation to use, you can set the `IPTABLES` environment variable to either `iptables` or `iptables-legacy`.
